Good afternoon everyone today's topic is related to energy and work. So what is energy energy? The scale of quantity that is associated with the state or condition of one or more objects?
Some characteristics of energy are that energy can be transformed from one type to another and transferred from one object to another how the total amount of energy remains the same.
So you cannot create energy, you cannot destroy energy.
And if she can only be transferred from one form to another only changes,
it's for how I would energy me,
have me undergo some losses,
which to us,
it feels like,
you know,
sometimes energy that you put in the system may not be the energy that you are taking out,
but that is because you are losing some so you can do some energy in the form of some negative energy,
for example,
friction,
you know,
any heat energy.
If you have an object, you try to slide it on a surface.
It's possible that when you apply the amount of force that you are applying, you're not able to and you're not able to convert that energy equally.
So you are giving a lot of input, putting a lot of effort, but it is going you're not seeing the same output.
The reason could be that maybe the surface has very high friction friction and a lot of energy is getting lost in trying to overcome that friction.
So, what is kinda, there are different types of energy, kinetic energy, potential energy, then heat, energy, thermal energy. So we will talk about most of these one by one.
The first kind of energy that we will be discussing is kinetic energy. So kinetic energy is associated with the state of motion of an object the faster the object moves. The greater is a kinetic energy.
So, if you have an object or mass, and that the speed, as we, it is, that is well below the speed of light kinetic energy can be given by half MV square with Amazon, mass of the object.
And we, we lost you object. So you wanna just kinda ticket energy and every other type of energy is Jude one Jude is equal to one kg meter square or second square in this equation. If I try to.
Without a standard, soft, mass, standard units of mass kilograms. Actually, half is just a cost. So can this. And what is velocity velocity is meter per second.
There's a square on it, so, with the units, become KGB, the square or second Square, which is which one what is work.
Work is the energy transferred to, or from an object by means of a force acting on the object, so to do some work, you need to apply a force on an object. Okay.
And that object must a certain distance if you apply force. And that object is not moving a certain certain distance according to physics you have not done anymore at all. Okay.
So, work is energy transferred to, or from an object of force acting on an object. Energy transfer to the object is positive.
Work energy transferred from the object is negative to something you give energy and sometimes you take energy, it can be negative and positive.
If you want to calculate the work done by force so what we can do is we can take an object of a beat. Sorry we can take eight here. Okay. And let's say we apply a force on it.
When we applied this force at at some angle, this beet, it is lying on this horizontal surface.
So, it's so wide, so you have a B, you have a Y, there's a beat around it and you are applying a force what happens is that this speed is going to move along this way right? So, the direction of the displacement is horizontal.
It is no displacement in the vertical direction. Yes. A displacement is what is on. The beat is only moving horizontal. So if you want to calculate the work done, it will be equal to the force.
The displacement multiply by the and which which component of the force. If you look at this force here.
It is four times distance or displacement that's the formula for the work done. So, when we want to find out, so we can see that this force has two components. One is the vertical one other one horizontal.
So, the horizontal is the cost component here in this example. So.
The work done is only done in the direction of the displacement. So, here, we just we have displacement only in the horizontal direction. So that means only the horizontal component of the force is doing any work.
What typical component of the force is not doing any work at all. I'll explain it to you and another way. So, let's say you have this access.
This is an X axis and this isn't why access? And let's say your objectives here it does that though, if you apply a force f.
And the object moves only in the. Yeah, so this is data. So, only the cost detail is doing some work. Only this one is doing somewhere.
Similarly, if you, if the object is moving in the direction of the displacement happens, particularly then only though what tickle component, which is assigned component, that is doing any work.
The only time that components will do any work is that when this object, it moves at a distance. I mean, at some angle.
Okay,
whether it moves in the direction of the force or any other angle,
as long as it is,
any other angle,
what components will do some work if it is moving along the components direction,
the displacement is always along the component direction that it is not doing anyone.
The only work being done is the force component in that direction.
Okay, so going forward.
In this example, if I want to calculate the work done, how can I calculate the work done worked on is equal to here. We have.
Say work done that's the formula that is equal to four times the distance. Basically the project both of them force and distance. They are. Displacements.
Sorry they went to quantities forces is that vector quantity work done is the product. So, when you take that product off to vector quantities, you will always get a scalar between work done is a scalar quantity it's expressed in jewels.
Okay. And it has nothing to do with direction. Direct work does not have a direction, but force has a direction. This placement has a direction f. g that work done. So, what does the four now?
If he, if he saw this equation, this will be key. This will be empty. Fine. F.
D, cause of why cause of five the case, the displacement is only in the X direction. So it's only the force forces X component only this one. That is important. Here.
There is no motion and that is inclined onward to.
So,
what typical component of the force of data it's not doing any work when forces act on an
object.
The network done on the object, the, some of the works done by the individual forces.
Alright, so what it means is that if I have now, if I take the same example, I take x axis. I take Y axis. Okay.
And now we are going to apply to forces, let's say, apply one force f one. Okay. And then we apply another force.
So what's his of work done the work done will be some of the work done by the to forces so there are two ways of doing it one way is that you find out resultant of these two forces let's say,
result of these two forces is,
you know,
the direction of the resultant let's say the displacement is in this direction.
So, the work done is our cause of times the displacement in the okay otherwise you can also calculate it like this f, one, cause of the times D.
plus f, two, cause of, you know, five, whatever let's say angle is fine. So f, to cause of five times, the displacement.
Either you find out result of the forces and then calculate to work audio calculate, work, done by force one last work done by.
Oh, I work in kinetic energy related. Yeah. Change in the kinetic energy of a particle is equal to the work done.
What it means is that let's say if an object is moving, which some initial velocity. Okay.
And it keeps moving at that velocity. There is no work done. You didn't do anyone.
However, if the object is moving at some initial velocity and you made it faster, you apply to force you increase the speed even more.
Than you did somewhere, or you apply the force of the opposite direction and stopped the final velocity is zero.
So, every time there is a change in the velocity of an object do to the application of a force, only then you have done some work. If an object is at rest, it's velocity zero and it keeps on just lying there.
No work is done on it, but if it is addressed and you'll give it to push, it starts moving, it has a final velocity. So it's velocity. There was a change in the velocity from zero to some value.
Now, you have some work done similarly if and object is moving at, let's say, thirty minutes a second you give it a push and it starts moving at a forty meter per second.
So the change from ten to forty is basically your network.
So, there must be a change in the velocity chain and the kinetic energy of the system to say that there is some work be done.
If the network done on the particle is positive and the particle kinetic energy increases by the amount of work.
And the converse is also, when you have positive kinetic energy, then the work done is, let's say, if if the change in the kinetic energy is positive, initially it was thirty. Finally, it is forty.
So, there's a positive increase we worked on is positive, but let's say, initially is forty and then finally it is twenty or ten or zero. So, that means this is the work done is negative. Do you have any questions and to now.
Here about other students I heard from to.
So, going forward, I'm going to do a sample problem. So here.
Look at this problem so there are two industrial space sliding at initially stage three, two hundred and twenty five kilogram for safe. A displacement of magnitude eight point.
Five meters straight towards the truck.
I've taken this from a book where they have given waiting interesting examples, like narrative based so they are to industrial spies.
So they are data there are some spice, you know, how it different industries are, like, in competition with each other.
So, they're always trying to cheat, steal each other's, not always, I mean, it's unethical, but sometimes they do the things that they try to steal their secret trade secrets or you might hear something is happening.
So, anyway, there, so to industrial spice, they're trying to slide and initially say, initially stationary, two hundred and twenty five kilogram save displacement. D of magnitude eight point five meters.
This is by one and this is by to. So they are displacing in this direction. And a displacement is eight point five minutes.
So, they are going straight towards their truck. The push f, one on the spy is twelve push f, one off spy one is twelve newtons.
So f, one, this guy is applying force in this direction and it is equal to twelve niches. It's at an angle of thirty degrees. Yes. So this is given.
The second guy, he is applying a force of f two. That is equal. Ten Newton.
And he's applying at forty degrees, right?
Above the horizontal the of these forces do not change as a safe and the floor and see if they make fiction list contexts.
So the floor and save, they are basically frictionless and these two f one and f two. They are not they are not changing the flow restriction as that means there is no force of friction.
So this is why in the diagram here you don't see any force. What are the forces must be exerted where you will have, of course, a normal reaction exerted by the floor on the object in the vertical direction.
And then the weight of the object will be acting downward.
What you have to do, what is a network done on the safe by forces f, one and f during the displacement you have to calculate the network done.
Save it's moving in the horizontal direction so basically the work done is in the horizontal. Right?
So you will consider only those forces that are doing the work, or that have a component in the horizontal direction.
That means when a body see, when a body is moving in the horizontal direction, any four that you apply at the top, that's not going to do anything.
It's not helping, it's not though it's not doing any work.
So, the network done, we can calculate the work done by force one, and then we can get work done by force to and then be simply add them together. So work done by the first one will be one cause of Peter. Yes.
So, twelve mutants.
Yeah, that just a magnitude it's placements and D, and angle is causal.
So this is basically the work done by the first force, the second forces f, two.
Causes so forces then Newton displacements eight point five and the horizontal component, the forces acting at forty degrees. So that displacement is in this direction.
So, the horizontal component is cause of forty. So second work done. This this, what is the total work done? Total work done will be hundred day. Three. That's the total work done.
So, during the displacement, what does a work done on the safe by the gravitational force? F. G. and what is the work done on the save by the normal force? F.
F. N. from the doing this displacement now they're asking that. What's the work done by the wait and by the normally, right?
Oh.
Displacement isn't this direction? It is acting downwards the normal forces acting upwards.
So, what does cause of these angles? These angles are ninety degrees of ninety zero so we can mathematically improve it.
The angle between fourth and the displacement is ninety. You can also, by the way, I don't know if, you know, or not, but the dot one of two forces, that's the rule vector.
A, when you take a product with a, let's say, B.
This is equal to a B, let's say this is Victor a, and let's say this is what this angle is data.
So, their product is a because of yeah.
So, we will apply this force times distance, cause of data.
So, what's the force? The weight is mg displacements at the cause of cause of ninety zero similarly or normal reaction.
Do you still work done by the normal normal force and the weight?
Because they are in the vertical direction and the space, and also the angle but angle is ninety between the force and the displacement was of ninety's.
What's the safest initially stationary? So that means initial velocity is equal to zero. I can write it like this initial velocity is equal to.
What does the initial kinetic energy? Initial kinetic energy is half empty. I square it. Is you asking? What is a final speed?
We, at the end of eight point five meters displacement. So they're, they want to ask us the final velocity.
You know, that the final kinetic energy that is given by.
Off M VF.
What did we say before? What's the work done? Work done by definition is.
Work is equal to change in the kind of technology.
Any changes the kinetic energy so final kinetic energy.
Minus and he should kinetic energy.
Is equal to the work done you already calculated the total work done before total work done is hundred and fifty three point four so here's this equation hundred and fifty three fifty three point. Four.
Okay. Initial velocity is equal to zero. So, mass is given for the saved twenty five kilograms, so you can find out the final velocity. Yeah. Find every loss is equal to one point. One.
Seven second is clear. Any questions.
Oh, okay, okay. The next is work done by gravitational force gravity to any work.
Data case yes, if you have an object here.
Apply a force in the vertical direction. So I imagine I have an object. This is my phone. It's on the desk. I can't see what where is the camera you can see me.
So.
So, hey, just, you know, the object it's placed here.
I have to play a force in the vertical.
And I lift it. Okay.
So, this force that I'm going is doing some positive work, it is force the manager of the, let's say I'm applying to new to well, that's anyway.
I'm just taking a random number so I'm applying some force. So to Newton's and the forced direction. What's the work done by this? For the work done by this for the applied force will be.
Dot D, so if we take this, what if we take a this asset action on the displacement?
And we say that, you know, it is towards a positive Y, axis Legends, you positive Y, axis here. So, what's the angle between the fourth and the displacement.
What's the angle between force on the displacement displacement? If the force of the vertical direction upwards displacement is in the vertical action upwards and Y, axis. We're taking positive Y upwards.
So what's the angle between the fourth displacement? Zero? Yes, thank you. So, dancer will be worked on will be empty.
Cause of data ties, you know, so the work done is empty cause of today's one. Okay so work done is forced time distance.
This fourth is doing positive work. Why? Because the direction of the force and the other displacement, they are the same. So, this is positive work done.
What does gravity doing? Basically get anyone telling me.
Forces applied forces upwards. It is displacing upwards that original gravity's downwards. So gravity's actually opposing the work done. Right? So the work done by gravity.
The difference will be picked up is now hundred and eighteen as far as gravity's concerned. Yes, it is resisting. Gravity is here. So between gravity and displacement, this angle is hundred and eighty causal.
Eighty is minus one. So, what's the work done? Minus.
Or so gravity or the wait multiplied by them. Displacement. Yeah. So this is the negative work force is doing positive work. Gravity is doing negative on the object.
Some other examples of the work done.
Work done by a spring force, so let's just say, yeah. Look at this figure. So we have a spring. Okay. It is attached to some figure.
Sorry, some, some support, so here is the string attached to this.
And this is the initial position. Oh, figured that is the note could be is the initial one. Yeah.
This is initial zero end, or the spring load is being applied and then you apply the force. Is that one for sure? So what will happen the spring will stretch in the positive direction.
Now,
when you apply a spring force,
stretch spring,
what will happen inside the spring spring is going to exert the storing force that will be in the opposite direction to the displacement.
What is the city storing? Force? See, the spring has a certain stiffness. It has certain stiffness.
When you apply a force on the spring, this stiffness tries to assist that force. Okay. So the, the twenty four is related to that stiffness. It's the, it's the opposite force.
So the restoring force is always opposite to the direction of that displacement, that is why you always have a negative sign because FS and X are opposite in that.
Yeah so the applied forces f, it displaces in positive x axis direction. Fs isn't restoring forces in that negative direction.
So the formula is FX is equal to minus effects.
Yeah, that can be that this is zero and then instead of stretching it, we apply a force in this direction. So I'm, I'm going to apply a force here.
Compress it so now negative it does it was a negative XX, it's spring is shortening. It is. Displacement is negative.
The data shows that he's toning force well, the job of the stiffness, it's to oppose whatever motion, you are producing positive or negative.
So now that restoring force will be opposite to the direction of the applied force. So, when you apply a force of the spring, and you try to resistant.
Because here again, the access negative, the negative sign is there f, and X are always opposite to each other. That's what the negative science shows.
This is, what is the negative sign?
Just shows this, that your force, and the displacement add in the opposite direction the restoring force and the displacement in the opposite direction is always minus X in general.
You can say force spring force is equal to K, times X many in many literature. You will not see this negative sign. The reason is that is understood that restoring force is always opposite to that displacement.
Just like, just forces compression force is not actually written as negative report a negative sign to help us differentiate from attention folks when we're doing problems.
Otherwise forces compressive, depression shows that it is opposite. So, similarly, yeah, the forces restoring.
So the forces storing, that is why it is negative.
I want to ask you, have you received any email regarding the exam guidelines?
What to expect in the exam?
Have you received any exam guidelines from the university? They told me yeah.
So, we're going to do the exam the yeah. Okay. So we are going to do the exam the same way as we did the, the midterm exam. It will be two hours long. However, not four hours.
So, it will be two hours long, and I will give you forty five minutes extra to scan and.
And you will upload as PDF however, you have to put your and this is compulsory that you have to put your.
Camera away and both audio and video have to be open. So I, we will, we will discuss more when I see for students.
So I will also I will also post final exam guidelines on so that, you know, that's how we are going to conduct exam.
Okay, we'll work.
Your audio is open, your video is open, your Mike will be open.
I I think if everyone is working in, it shouldn't be a big problem.
And especially opening video has nothing to do with how you solve some audio. Maybe you can say that what, if someone is loud but, I mean, you will be putting it away.
We'll see how it goes. I don't expect any problems see how it goes.
When we are having exams, not, everyone is going to see what happens is that when we are having class, maybe other people are also are also having classes, but exams are according to the time table.
Not everyone is going to have the exam and not. Everyone is having online, so there will be less fluid on WebEx. We'll see how it goes.
So, we can do it this way that your audio right now my audio is open right? But everyone else's audio is I mean, your Mike's on off.
And your videos also off, but on just on that today for two hours, hour and forty five minutes, or do you have to be open? This is for quality assurance and these are the, this is what we have to do.
Okay, so so, let's calculate the work done by this three storing force.
What kind of work is done so when you move the string from an initial point, initial distance X, this is initial position. X.
and final position is X f, you know, whether it is positive, or maybe it is negative your final depends on which direction you are moving. So W, of s will be equal to four times displacement.
So minus f, X times the effects. Okay.
And you integrate between X, two X, initial position to find a position why minus FX case as we said, that restoring force is always opposite to the direction of that displacement.
This is basically your displacement and this is basically on force. Actually. Sorry. Yeah.
This is basically a force and this also, I think it's in this way in, like, integrating it helps, because this you can have a variable for snow. Okay. Maybe you are applying a force. But that force is not a constant.
So, in that case, you can't just use for Stein's distance and you use the formula force dot distance or the displacement that means the force is constant, but right. Having a function of eFax that means, Equifax can be variable.
So, basically it takes care of.
The fact that not many times when you apply a force and object, you can maintain it, unless it isn't automated force. You can maintain it hundred percent by that amount. Yeah. So that's why they you have an integration. Okay. So, f, affects the X.
you know, that what is FX.
Equifax is the the sorry.
I'm sorry this, this effects is basically or the displacement you are integrating, you are moving from to X that says why you are integrating for this small Intel off the displacement.
Now what does FX FX is minus scale effects. Okay. So, this minus sign is already there into the of X minus K is a constant so X of X within the values.
So you get this, so this is a work done by a string of K X squared, minus half gate access, notice that it is different from the change in the kinetic energy for the kinetic energy.
It was half empty Square.
Minus half ice squid, so, and I was later, but in the spring I is first f is late.
The reason is that this is a negative sign and so because because of this negative sign,
this is switched you will have a,
if I,
for example,
with a negative sign here,
the final velocity becomes,
this expression becomes negative.
And this expression becomes positive.
It's, it's reverse spring. So what is the work done by kinetic energy?
That is the change in the kinetic energy is the work done when our objectives in motion to change the kind of ticket. And if there is a chain of kinetic energy, sound work is done.
In case of spring when a spring moves from an initial position to to some final position X, there will be worked on by the East voting force.
That's the work done by a spring force, or the spring restoring force. So, let us do an example in the figure acumen canister of mass M is equal to four point. Five zero point.
Four kilogram slider across the horizontal frictionless counter with speed is equal to zero point. Five meter per second.
It then runs into encompass is a spring of spring constant is equal to seven fifty.
When the canister is momentarily stopped by the spring by what this is a spring compressed. So you have a spring here. This is this initial position.
Now, you have a canister of mass and okay it is sliding across the surface with the velocity. That's initial velocity.
And should velocity zero point five it is moving. So then it strikes the spring surface. So actually, what will happen the spring with compressed spring comes here.
So, what does the displacement displacement will be okay the spring has a constant case now when this scan, it's, it's it strikes the spring.
Each momentarily comes to stop. So, that means the final velocity is equal to zero. I find a lost zero because it's a stationary. Now, what's the question?
The question is why what this to see is the spring compressed we have to find out the distance date by which the spring is compressed now in problems like these. You have to look at it in this way.
Some work is being done here that would work, or the energy that is stored in the in the mass in the object, and again stuff when it is moving with a certain velocity.
Same the same energy. It is going to transfer to the spring, right? If I have certain energy, same energy, I'm going to transfer whatever it is. My energy should be. If there is a contact happening.
Yeah, so I have set an energy or I have certain knowledge. Okay and we meet in lecture and then I transfer it to you. So whatever I know and this is not technically true.
Because you are students you will not always learn hundred percent. Okay, you will learn hundred percent when you you do need to do some extra effort, like, you know, practice and everything. I give a wrong example. Ideally whatever I ninety five.
Yes. So whichever I'm transferring to you. You will gain it from me. You will gain it from the same as a thing.
So, every time you have problems like these, you will dry down work done by the canister should be equal to the work done on the screen. There should be equal.
Equation energy is concerned, so when the spring is moving at a certain velocity, and it comes to a stop, so its velocity changes that is kinetic energy changes that means some energy is stored in it.
Right, and some work is done. And how much is the spring work when the spring gets compressed so it also does some work storing force does it does some work how much will that work?
Well, that energy that will be equal to whatever it's input input is equal to output. So we can write an equation work done.
By the spring is equal to the work done by.
By the kinetic energy, so we can write it like this change and the kinetic energy that is the work done, right? So this work done should be equal to.
You know, the work done by the spring should be well, that is right write it down further. What does the kinetic energy work done? The final kinetic energy minus the initial current that is a change in the kinetic energy.
That is a work done. So, this change the kinetic energy. This is also equal to half empty square minus.
Hoff MV squared is equal to you just started. Previously this equation worked on for the spring half K X.
I square minus half K except squid.
Show off.
K. X. I square minus half key X. F squid.
This one, I'm just inputting this one.
Now, what does de de is a difference between X and X f, right? It is a distance it or it is the difference between the two. Okay.
So we can say that X if you say that X is zero. That's our zero point. Reference point, we can give it some alternate. So let's say this part is zero.
This point is zero and what does this point coordinates of this point this point is the.
Zero today, so then is equal to zero similarly final velocity because the canister, when it strikes the spring, it is zero.
So, we are left with this half. mbi Square is equal to half cake size Square. Basically, this equation when they have written this equation, they have sort of missed couple of steps directly.
They have written change the kinetic energy is a work done by the so minus half Katy Square. Yeah, but remember that D is from to accept if the initial position is zero the final position is heavy, right?
It's like this.
And solving it, you can find out the distances equal to one point two centimeters. So that's a work done by the spring. An example of that.
Previously we said that many times, the fourth is not going to be constant. Okay meaning that force can be a function of time is the function of facts.
So let's say we're applying a force, so this is the force. Okay. So.
Apply a force, it is not a constant force, and you want to find out the work done, so normally work done. The formula is four times. Distance is equal to work done this, which is basically under the car.
If I just, let's say if the force is constant, this is a force. This is X. okay you are applying a constant force, and you are moving in object from the initial position to the final position.
So, what does a work done for time? Distance? Right? Forced time distance. So, that is the end of the code forced time distance.
But what if the this, this is not a constant rather it is it's some function. Okay.
So, in that case, you can integrate, you can divide this trip, you know, you can divide it with the strip over here and then you integrated between these two limits FX time. Do you enforced times distance?
But that is work done via radio force and moving the object from is some initial position to.
So this is expression, we can also write in different ways.
Okay you can also make some substitutions and I don't because f, what is f force the net force is equal to mass times acceleration. What is the acceleration?
Acceleration is velocity over time, right? And what is velocity.
Philosophies yeah, so you can make some substitutions work done is also equal to mass times, acceleration time DX, or it is equal to this kinetic energy also.
So we can, you can write down the work done expression in different ways. Fx DX works m a Times D, access the same thing or the difference of the kinetic energy. And of course, the formula of the kinetic energy has velocity.
So this is a work done by a variable force. What if.
The force is having I. J. K. components. Okay. And the displacement is also vector having key components. Previously. We took an example.
That if this is your mass, you apply a force.
This is angle data. So what does this for Spector? Basically, this force factor is FX plus f. Y. J. F cause of data.
Less f. Y is f, sign off so we are applying this force. Now he said that if the displacement is only horizontal. So that means only this component is doing work.
Or, if the displacement is only what to go, that means only this component is doing some word right?
What, if displacement is not just in the X or Y, direction, what is? Displacement is also a vector. Displacement is meaning it's at some angle.
So, let's say that displacement is in this direction.
This is fine, or is in this direction, or maybe the same direction as a force many possibilities. So, that means when you write down towards this is a work done formula.
So what does in this case,
when a displacement is also having some components so then you will right the four specter dot the director,
and so in generally speaking,
let's say you have a three D force,
and this space is also three D,
what will be the work done force,
time,
displacement,
FX,
D,
ex,
next component and X displacement,
plus the Y,
component,
and the Y,
displacement,
plus the Z component and displacement.
Finally, if the forces are very able, I mean, this is this is a differential work. So, if you want to find out the total work done, you can integrate like, this, giving the limits for WI.
Fi to why for it will be to see.
Any questions any questions to know.
All good. Okay, so today's lecture is until two thirty that's the lecture scheduled for today.
And then from two, thirty to three, thirty, we're going to be talking, we're going to be doing some problems. Okay. I will not to ask you that you have to stay here.
In any case, I will be recording the lecture and I am going to be uploading it so it will be the same.
You know, the same recording, or maybe I will stop it and record again for problems related to central voice and movement.
We need more practice on that topic. So, next topic is.
No, it's yeah, it says hundred. Let me just correct it.
Actually, by default, it is always hundred assignments and everything.
So, it's a full is anyone getting with marks that means it just out of ten? Let me connect now.
Place I forget.
Never mind. I'm going to.
When I put it on on, I will correct it. Yeah. Now, icon corrected it's.
So don't worry about it. Yeah, so anyone, who's one of you has nine, nine? So it's nine out of ten. Sorry? Not nine out to one hundred and someone has ten out of ten.
So you have it's not ten out to one hundred. It's ten out of ten, so the time rate at which the work is done by a force is set to be the power due to the force. If a force doesn't amount of work.
W, so the work done. So, we, we've talked about the work done. Okay.
Now, if you are mentioning, that work done in a certain amount of time, like, you make time factor, also that okay, this much work is done, but in how much time has done, that gives you the power, right?
Otherwise see, I give you an assignment. Okay. One person does it in one day. Other person does it in one month. Do you think it's fair to judge them as being equal?
Okay, because one person finished in one day the other person finished.
In one month or the same amount to work. So, time does matter. Right? Well, done in one day is not. The same as work done in a month work done in a month. It's very less work on average. It has less power.
It has less meaning. Someone who is was very efficient. He's doing all that work in, you know, in one day that means it's.
I give you these silly examples, because I think they kind of I I think you will understand it better this way if I give you these every day examples. So please bear with me when I'm talking like this.
So well done, when you define it within a certain amount of time, that means is the problem.
So in general, when you calculate the work done over a certain period of time from T, one to T two, it's the average power. So we are looking at an average, maybe let's say you are doing the work done in twenty four hours. Okay.
As a whole, but maybe did more work in the morning in the afternoon. You took some nap and then you did the remaining work in the evening. Okay. But if I calculate your work done and I divided by twenty four hours what is it?
Giving me, giving me regardless of how you were working, you were working in the morning you, but in the evening you in the afternoon you were here in the in the evening you were here, it will average outright it will divide work done.
Maybe you did hundred tools divide about twenty four hours. It will give you an average. But what if I want to many times I want instantaneous that add to particular incident of time what was your out? Which, how much walk you were doing.
So, in that case, you have to time, have to use a different expression. D. W.
So this is, for a certain differential amount of time differential was done in the differential amount of time for certain work the amount of work that you did in a small interval of time.
This is instantaneous follow in the British system. The unit of power is what's found per second often the horsepower it is used. So one what? That is the unit of power. These are the ESA units.
Okay one what is equal to what is basically jewels for second because work is Jules and Delta. T. is in second units of power, or two for a second one tool per second is equal to one.
It's also equal to point seven, three, eight foot pounds per second. Also horsepower is a very common unit. That is used one horsepower is equal to this much.
In fact, when you talk about electricity and, you know, terminal mechanical engineers, mostly B, for electricity.
Yeah, we do talk about wards and all that, but for machinery many times, it's like horsepower what horsepower of this and what horsepower of that this is equal to seven hundred and forty six watts it's very helpful.
If you know, these two conversions, a one horsepower is equal to five decipher. So you don't have to memorize it. I'm not saying that.
But what every day use, these should be like, on your fingertips as engineers especially those who are in mechanic.
As an example now.
And elevator cab of mass, and is equal to five hundred kg. Just sending with the speed is equal to for me a second.
What is supporting? Cable begins to slip allowing it to.
For with constant acceleration by five. Okay. So so we have an elevator this one, it has a mass of five hundred kilograms. It is connected to an elevated cable here.
Yeah, so it is sending with speed. So, this is initial speed.
For me, just a second, it is sending it is going down when its supporting cable begins to slip something happens we support to give us start slipping.
So, what happens is that it starts flooding with the constant acceleration. Yeah, activation is g, by five in the negative direction.
So, during the fall to the distance is equal to twice meters.
Basically, previously, because it was held by cable, which was functioning properly a certain velocity was maintained for me, just a second once the why the cable slips now, it starts falling at some different acceleration.
So it is g by five previously, it was at a constant speed. Four meters per second when the speed is constant, there is no acceleration. It was not accelerating. It was falling sending at the constant speed. This is what happens in elevators, right?
And you are the elevator why are you? So, comfortable, barely field, I mean, you to feel a little business moving it's not accelerating, right?
Because it's moving at a constant speed, but if something happens to the supporting cable, it will start accelerating and accelerating downwards because the gravity is like, you know, it just pulling it towards it faster and faster.
So, now it falls to distance equal. Twelve me this question is, what is the work done on the cable by the gravitational force? So how much work is done on the way to cap by the gravitational force mind you.
So, it is moving down.
And the force of gravity is also down, so here we can draw three body diagram. So let's it. This is a gap. Then you wait till the tension in the cable. This is a force of gravity. Okay displacement is downloads.
Force the is doing negative work. He is opposite Judy.
And in this case g is doing positive work because g isn't the same direction ask the same formula for times the space for start to displacement. And then cause of f. D.
cause of f is.
The week, right? So.
Also the displacement and the force of gravity in the same direction. So, Peter, I would T and T they are an opposite. So their angle is hundred and eight.
Causes zero, we can put the values and get the answer fifty nine, you know, jobs to be during the twelve me to fall. What is the work done on the cap? By the pool?
The only way to keep it as we said, that the work done by. So cable in the opposite direction. So, cable is upwards. Tension is upwards the, the elevator is moving down.
So cause when he, this would be the expression TD cause a file, you don't have to put a negative sign yourself if you put the right angle.
If you put five, one, eighty, cause one, eighty is minus one in this equation is unknown.
You don't know what Steve previously this debate was a non quantity, but we don't know what these how can you find out? We can find out by newtons. A second motion is equal to mass timed acceleration.
Says, pastimes acceleration. Okay. So f, negative positive minus negative pass times acceleration.
By the way we are taking this as posit this says negative acceleration is done. Right? So, that way it is negative is basically this a value when you push a value of a, we'll put it as negative.
You know, yeah, when you get into place with this plus so this is what you get now replacing the values. Okay.
This is acceleration is g, by five you see here, they have written it as minus g. five reason is that it is acting downwards. Acceleration is downwards. So, in this equation sign conventions, these plus, mgi's this and a is negative.
So negative putting everything. Five is one. Eighty. M. G. D. so you get the we get the negative work done minus forty seven C.
What is the next work done on the gap during the full? The network is a some of the works done by the forces acting on the gap. This is a network done network done. Some of the two forces work done by G and work done by team.
So, here it is calculated before you just take this. So, the network done is twelve. So the downward for the gravity is doing positive, still giving some resistance still trying to put up with. Although it is starting to slip.
So, but it is still moving, trying to move it in that direction. So, the net effort is reduced the network done is less if there was, no T, then the body will fall by this, you know, by nine point, eight, one meter per second Square.
Right? But it does, at the moment, it does g by five g.
Reason is that it's still offering some resistance is the caps kinetic energy at the end of the twelve meter.
Okay, so we've calculated the total work done total work done should be equal to that change in the kinetic energy and there is a chain and the initial velocities for me just a second.
And then the body was accelerating, right? So, there is a change in the kinetic energy. They are asking us at what is a final velocity they asking us the kinetic energy at the end. So, we can write down this expression work done is equal to change and the kinetic energy.
Okay so, W, work done is equal to chain kinetic energy K. F minus K.
So finding out K just rewriting it yeah. Will be this. Right? W, and when we get to sixteen.
It's just
so this is.
This is related to kinetic energy. The next topic is related to the potential energy.
To me this sure. Five minutes straight. So you come back and.
I will also add the next picture.
Yeah, I'm giving a one or two again.
I mean, I'm open to give other courses, but there are no students.
I can teach structure's structure, engineering related courses.
So you don't have enough students in the summer for those well, that yeah, which courses you want.
Are you in civil engineering?
Yes, I okay. So.
Which courses you want to take I mean, I took a look at the grief planner we have, I think structural design or mechanics. What's it called?
Got I think it was mechanics of solid. Can you email?
Dr catalyst okay. Okay. And check with him if, because he teaches mechanics of solid.
So, you you guys, if you are enough, so, maybe they would open a section. And the thing is that usually Dr features discourse, but I can also teach this course.
I mean, I've taught in many it's my courses also structure analysis, structural design, mechanics of knowledge. These are my courses.
Okay, so you can discuss with them. I don't know if he's teaching in the summer or not. Maybe he's teaching so check with him. If he's.
Teaching because the, the, the scheduling for the some of the offerings are so minimum. Okay. Basically talk to him. I will, I will send him an email and I will say that if he's not teaching that.
Course, I can I'm also willing to teach other courses. Yeah, that will be great because we want to finish as much courses as we can.
I think you need to be at least ten students that tends to this minute. Yeah. Or maybe twelve th, something like this. I at least you, if you are ten, you can make a good case.
Okay, and we have to send like, one email to the girl. Yeah. Just send him an email and tell him that. I mean, but you have to, like, get in touch with other students also.
Yeah, I know. Yeah. So maybe you can copy them in your email. And tell them that we have a certain group, and we would like to take the scores. Is there any whatever courses? I'm not saying just the scores.
Is there any professor who can teach this? Course? So, I know that Dr capital. He normally teaches mechanics of solid and maybe he is teaching. I don't know.
So if he's not teaching, I can offer that, you know, I can handle the portion so much. I will I will I will get the consent from my, from the students first. I'm sure.
In which.
English discipline are you are you there.
Okay, I'm gonna onto attendance now. Oh, okay. So which discipline are you.
And civil or something else and what about her mom and which discipline are you.
Okay.
It shows you so ID.
Are you there?
Yes. So your attendance is Mark I will continue.
So, anyway, potential energy and conservation of energy. So another type of energy is potential energy in this topic. We'll also talk about conservation of energy. How energies can oh, energy? Oh, it it is.
Transfer transferred from one form to another.
But it is never really never zero or it cannot be created it cannot be destroyed. So, one system work done must be equal to another work done. This is also this is semi. You can eat the work done equation and the same. We ask observation of energy.
Okay, so energy in should be equal to the energy.
Potential energy there are two types of potential energy. One is a gravitational potential energy. Another one is elastic potential energy.
For the gravitational potential energy, I mean, it is the energy that is associated with the duration or arrangement of a system of an object and that exert force is on one another.
So, we will talk about both energies one by one.
Gravitational potential energy is that, for example, let's say an object.
Yeah, that's a, this is ground and this is a reference.
You have an object, so you lift this object to a certain distance.
So, it covered this much height for the potential energy stored. The system is equal to M. G. times each.
So this is also equal to the negative of the work done and what you have done the masses acting downwards and you have given it a displacement of. So it is mass times displacement of.
So it is forced time displacement. And because the, it is opposite, the sign is negative.
So that's why the work done is negative gravitational force or the weight is acting down worse than a displacement is now you can say that I just said that energy cannot be created nor destroyed.
So, when the object is stationary, it is at rest and then I'm saying that I'm moving it upwards. Am I not negating myself that here this is zero.
Hey, this is H, right so MGE time zero zero. So that means object is having zero energy. So, how did we create this energy?
Well, it depends where you references, how why is energy zero here? Because I'm taking this ground as my reference.
If I change my preference, if I go to center of the, that is my reference, then the object definitely has some potential energy right? It is at some height.
So we always have some potential energy you're sitting in your house have some potential energy. You have the potential to do some work.
Now, I'm sitting in my I live at the eleventh floor.
With respect to the flow, or? Yes, I have zero energy HS with a spy energy with respect to the flow with respect to the ground outside. I'm eleventh floor. Hi. What is my energy?
Mge multiply by this these eleven fools height.
How can I prove it? Well, I can try jumping out of the balcony.
There will be work done. Trust me. So that's the work done. This is the energy. Yeah, you would just take my word for it and you also don't do this experiment transfer.
You have energy potential energy stored in yourself yeah.
So, it may seem like we're just sitting, we're doing nothing. We have no energy, but yeah, I know some anytime we say we are fasting. I'm fasting so I am with energy, but no, you do have energy? I have energy.
Yeah, potential energy and we can test by jumping out the window. You will fall by a certain distance and something will happen. Some work will be done on us.
Okay, so you never, really have zero energy, but yes, it, Wally with respect to your reference access. Okay.
If I go on the twelve flow more work, I, I have more energy potential so if I go to the first floor, I have less stored energy with respect to the outside.
But if I'm on the eleventh floor, and I measuring my energy with respect to the eleventh floor, then, of course, I don't have any potential.
So, that reference very important and the choice of the reference makes absolutely no difference.
What happened? So, this is gravitational potential energy. What about a spring energy that change?
So, let's say you have a block, which is attached to a spring yeah, and initially it is at rest and she also initiate is here.
As the block moves rightward, if the block moves in this direction in the right direction, the spring force does negative work on it. Of course, the, if the block is moving in this direction, the spring force is in the opposite direction.
So negative work is done.
Similarly, if the block is moving in this direction, the direction of the spring force will be opposite.
Okay, so, as a block move back, what towards X, the spring force does positive work on the. Okay.
So, for the block, yes, it does positive work, but in terms of, in terms of potential energy, it is, it is going to be negative. The change.
Then tell you in potential energy, which is a gravitational elastic is defined as being equal to the negative of the work done on the object by the force.
This is on the object by the force. So we're talking about the spring for sure. We're not talking about the applied force apply force always does positive work in the direction of the displacement is the spring for that is opposite.
Okay. Now, in this case, you can say if this is positive X, this is a positive X direction. Yeah. So, that's why it's the spring force it is doing negative work in the negative direction.
So, here now it does if this is the positive X direction, the spring forces also in the same direction. So that is why we can say it is doing the positive work in terms of potential energy.
So potential energy is always the negative of the work done. This is not for kinetic energy, particularly is of MV f squared minus half Square.
So,
if kinetic energy increases work done is positive if kinetic energy reduces work,
done this negative potential energy,
it's always the negative of the work done,
or work done is always negative with the potential energy because potential energy it is a potential to do something is a very different energy from kinetic energy.
So, let's say if I have a certain potential energy H.
If I jump out the back, any I'm going down, right? So, it's the opposite. My energy is used, it's converted it into something negative. The work done is being in the negative direction.
Okay, so they are magnitude is equal, but sign is always opposite when it comes to the potential energy kinetic energy, as long as kinetic energy increases within a work done is positive.
So we are now finished with our lecture time.
I'm going to stop here this lecture the next week we will continue this and we will finish this topic.
We'll do a couple of problems and then on Wednesday you will have a quiz and I want to do a trust problem with you. Right? And you need to practice on.
I'm not going to solve some problems related to Central.
It's so if you, I'm still, I'm going to stop this lecture and I'm going to start recording it again or the second half. So let's stop.